Cancellation of accommodation a taste of things to come? We all have read the articles in the paper about the swimming galas in Oudtshoorn moving to George, about the quality of the water in the NA Smit Swimming Pool, and how the town’s eco­nomy will loose millions of rands if the galas were moved elsewhere.Now that has happened.The cancellations of accommodation in Oudts­hoorn were the first example of what this will mean financially for guesthouses, restaurants, tourist attractions – the entire Oudtshoorn business community, as the lost revenue calculation is endless!What is happening – who is being held responsible and what is being done to rectify the situation that is transpiring at present?Could we please get a follow-up article as to what is collectively being done and when and what is being done to fix this problem.This doesn’t just effect business owners, it effects their employees too, their income and their wider families – not to even mention the state of our roads.With the KKNK around the corner, are we as the Greater Oudtshoorn community going to hang our heads in shame?–Vanessa Engelbrecht, OudtshoornThe Oudtshoorn Municipality Acting Municipal Manager, Walter Hendricks, responded as follows to the letter:“We had internal challenges after the heavy rains and flooding experienced. We are currently addressing the situation internally and will revert to the public on the way forward as soon as possible. The matter is a serious concern as we do not want to lose needed revenue by losing gala events like swimming.” Ek glo weer in my medemens Ek het ’n vreemde, verstommende ervaring die afgelope week op Oudtshoorn beleef.Op die plein voor Fruit and Veg kom ek haastig om my bakkie se agterkant toe ek my amper vasloop in ’n vreemde jong vrou. Ons lag toe maar albei.Minute later kom ek uit die winkel. Dieselfde vrou gee twee pakkies in my hande – een droëwors, die ander biltong. “Ietsie vir die pad,” is al wat sy sê voordat sy omdraai en in haar bakkie klim.Ek staan verstom. “Is jy ernstig? Wat bedoel jy?”Sy ry weg sonder omkyk, sonder om te wag vir die dankie. Sê net: “As iets oor my pad kom, dan doen ek dit net.”Ek was verslae toe sy in haar wit dubbelkajuit-CG-bakkie klim. Ek weet net sy is mooi en jonk en gaaf. Ek glo weer in my medemens.– Marie Nel, Oudtshoorn Staak fokus op vorige raadslede Van ons huidige raadslede moet nou ophou om na vorige raadslede te verwys. Dit is ook die strategie van die nasionale regering wanneer hulle nie antwoorde het nie.Hulle is miskien nie verantwoordelik vir die toestand van ons dorp nie, maar die herstelprogram is hulle verantwoordelikheid. Ongelukkig hou hulle klaarblyklik nog net vergaderings oor hul eie belange, oor posisies, oor in beheer wees, oor poste vir kinders en families.Wanneer maak die burgemeester sy 100 dae-plan met datums bekend sodat die kiesers die raads­lede kan evalueer.Die huidige situasie laat mense wonder oor leierskap.Miskien moet die gemeenskap ’n mosie van onvermoë in die hele raad instel?– Oudtshoorniet