THE Union Stars Cricket Club from Oudtshoorn was honoured with the Cricket South Africa (CSA) Blue Flag status award at the annual SWD Cricket Awards function that was held recently.CSA announced in November 2019 that the club met the requirements to receive Blue Flag status, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic the formal pre-sentation could only take place at the gala event, held on Saturday, 7 May 2022.Only 20 clubs in South Africa received this award. Blue Flag status for clubs is a CSA recognition given to clubs who have driven the objectives and aims of the Presidential Plan, which provides the minimum requirements to operating an effective cricket pipeline structure.The criteria used to ascertain the status of such a club is based on administration capabilities, adequate facilities, a minimum number of teams and suitably qualified coaches. Affiliated registered clubs need to complete a Club Quality Index (CQI) form to determine their status. The CQI is an administrative self-evaluation document that serves to guide or be used as a reference in ascertaining the status of a registered club in driving the CSA Presidential Plan club cricket objectives. A club wishing to ascertain Blue Flag status must score 90 % on the CQI.Union Stars was established in 1892 and has a proud and rich tradition and history in the SWD. Over the years the club has been the most successful club in winning competitions played under the auspices of SWD Cricket and produced famous SWD players such as Gurshwin Rabie, Marcello Piedt, Ottniel Baartman, Pieter Stuurman and Waldo Lategan. The current president of the board, Rudy Claassen, as well as Simon Swigelaar – an honorary life member of CSA – are members of the club. Claassen, congratulated the club with their achievement and thanked all the role players for their hard work and contributions. “We are indeed very proud of the club’s performances to achieve this recognition,” he said. The qualifying clubs will be able to wear the prestigious CSA Blue Flag logo on the sleeve of their playing shirts and the club was awarded with a CSA plaque of recognition – which was awarded to the chairperson of the club at the awards function.